Applications Menu: This menu facilitates the opening of any installed application. 
Upon hearing the Welcome tune and Orca announcing itself, you can press Alt+F1 to 
access the Applications Menu. From here, navigate through menu items using the up 
or down arrow. Categories include Universal Access, System Tools, Sound and Video, 
Office, Internet, Graphics, Games, Education, etc. To access submenu items, 
press the right arrow key, and to navigate through submenu items, use the up or 
down arrow. For example, after pressing Alt+F1, use up or down arrow keys to move 
to Sound and Video, then press the Right arrow key and navigate through the submenu. 
You can quickly access any menu or submenu by pressing the first letter of the menu. 
For instance, to reach Sound and Video, press Alt+F1, press the up arrow once, and 
then press 'S' to select Sound and Video. If there are more than one menu starting 
with same letter you will have to press the letter repeatedly to reach the desired 
menu. To exit the Applications Menu, use the Escape key. 

The easiest way to access any software is by pressing the left Windows(Super) key 
and typing the first few letters of the application's name. Then, use the down arrow 
to view all the applications starting with those letters. Press the Enter key to 
open the desired application. For example, after pressing the Windows key, type 'f,' 
and all software starting with 'f,' such as Firefox, will be listed in the dropdown.

To close any opened application, use the key combination Alt+F4.

Places Menu: This menu provides quick access to various locations on your computer.
After navigating to the Applications Menu by pressing Alt+F1, use the right arrow 
to access the Places Menu. Here, using the up or down arrows, you can browse through 
your locations where your data is stored. The menu includes Home, Desktop, Documents, 
Music, Pictures, Videos, Downloads, Computer, Partitions, and Recent Documents.
The home directory serves as the primary location where data saved from applications 
is stored. Subdirectories such as Desktop, Documents, Music, and Downloads can be found here. 
After opening a location, you can create a new folder by pressing Ctrl+Shift+N. 
To copy a folder or file, use Ctrl+C, and to paste it into another directory, use Ctrl+V. 
To navigate to the Home directory, press Alt+Home, and to access the Desktop, press 
Alt+Ctrl+D. If you're inside a folder, you can return by pressing the Backspace key.

Shutdown, Restart and Log out the system: Press Alt+F1 and press Up arrow to go 
to the Shutdown. Then press Enter twice to Shutdown the Computer. To restart the 
Computer you can select the restart from shutdown window. Inorder to restart the 
computer forcefully we can use the key combinations Alt+Ctrl+F1 and the then press 
Alt+Ctrl+Delete. In order to forcefully logout from the current session, we can 
press Alt+Ctrl+Backspace and the the system wil logout. Here select the user and 
enter the password to login again.           

Orca screen reader: One can toggle Orca on and off using Alt+Super+S. To force restart 
orca screen reader, press Alt+Super+O, and to silence Orca, use Insert+S. Continuous 
reading can be initiated with Numpad Plus(+), while Insert+H activates the Learn mode. 
Press Escape to exit Learn mode. To access Orca preferences, press Insert+Space. 
There are eight pages accessible with the Right and Left Arrow keys. Navigate within 
a page using Tab. For changing the language, go to the Voice page, then Tab until you 
reach the Person option. Use the Down Arrow to select the language, then press Enter 
twice. Apply the changes with Alt+A, and confirm with Alt+O. Adjustments to speech pitch, 
rate, and volume can be made using the sliders on the Voice page

System Settings
In the main menu we have the System tools menu and in the sub menu we have Administration, 
Preferences, System Settings, System monitor CPU-X etc.

Using CPU-X one can find out the hardware configuration of the computer. Here we have 
separate pages for CPU, Motherboard, System, Graphics and Caches. To navigate through 
pages use arrow keys and to move through the pages use Tab.

For comprehensive video tutorials, explore https://www.youtube.com/@zendalona/videos
