
Toggle screen reader        : Super+Alt+s  
For replacing screen reader : Super+Alt+o
Toggle Magnifier            : Super+Alt+m

Official user guide - https://help.gnome.org/users/orca/stable/

Keyboard Layout

Orca has two keyboard layouts: Desktop (i.e. with a numeric keypad) and Laptop. The layout you choose impacts which key is used as the Orca Modifier.

    If you are using the Desktop layout, the Orca Modifier will be both Insert and KP_Insert, the latter being the same key as KP_0.

    If you are using the Laptop layout, the default Orca Modifier will be CapsLock

The layout also determines the keystrokes associated with a number of Orca's commands.
Accessible-Coconut shipped with Desktop layout as default.

Change Orca Preferences : Orca Modifier+Space.

Changing Your Keyboard Layout
    Get into the Orca Preferences dialog by pressing Orca Modifier+Space.
    Move to the Keyboard Layout group of radio buttons.
    Arrow to the desired layout.
    Press the Apply button.

Increase speech rate    : Orca Modifier+Up              
Decrease speech rate    : Orca Modifier+Down            
Increase speech pitch   : Orca Modifier+left            
Decrease speech pitch   : Orca Modifier+right           
Increase speech volume  : Orca Modifier+Home            
Decrease speech volume  : Orca Modifier+End             


Documents

To read the contents of any document, use the application's built-in caret navigation mode. As you navigate within the text of the document, 
Orca will present your new location. As a result, you are likely already familiar with how to read a document using Orca. For instance:

    Use Left and Right to move and read by character.
    Use Ctrl+Left and Ctrl+Right to move and read by word.
    Use Up and Down to move and read by line.
    Use Shift in combination with the above commands to select and unselect text.


Reading Commands

In addition to the caret navigation commands which are part of GNOME, Orca provides a number of commands which you can use to read a document.

Below you will see several references to "KP". All "KP" keys are located on the numeric keypad. 
You will also notice that there are different keystrokes depending upon whether you are using a desktop or a laptop -- or more accurately, 
whether you are using Orca's Desktop keyboard layout or its Laptop keyboard layout. 
For additional information, please see the Keyboard Layout topic.


The following Orca Flat Review Commands can be used to read your current location:
    Read the current line:
        Desktop: KP 8
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+I
    Read the current word:
        Desktop: KP 5
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+K
    Spell the current word:
        Desktop: KP 5 (double-clicked)
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+K (double-clicked)
    Phonetically spell the current word:
        Desktop: KP 5 (triple-clicked)
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+K (triple-clicked)
    Read the current character:
        Desktop: KP 2
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+Comma
    Phonetically speak the current character:
        Desktop: KP 2 (double-clicked)
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+Comma (double-clicked)
    Speak the Unicode value of current character:
        Desktop: KP 2 (triple-clicked)
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+Comma (triple-clicked)

Say All
Orca's Say All command will cause Orca to speak the entire document beginning from your current location.
    Desktop: KP Plus
    Laptop: Orca Modifier+Semicolon

Text Attributes and Selected Text
    Orca has a dedicated command for obtaining the attributes of the text at the caret location. In addition, 
    if you use Orca's Where Am I commands from within a text object in which text has been selected, 
    Orca will announce the selected text. Orca's command to speak the current selection will also perform this function in a text object.

    Present the text attributes: Orca Modifier+F
    Perform basic Where Am I:
        Desktop: KP Enter
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+Return
    Perform detailed Where Am I:
        Desktop: KP Enter (double-clicked)
        Laptop: Orca Modifier+Return (double-clicked)
    Speak current selection: Orca Modifier+Shift+Up



Learn Mode

In Learn Mode, Orca will announce each keystroke you pressed along with any associated Orca command that keystroke is bound to. In this mode, you can also get a list of shortcuts containing all the Orca commands you can use.
Using Learn Mode
    Get into Learn Mode by pressing Orca Modifier+H.
    Press any key or keystroke. Orca will announce the keys and any associated command.
    Press Esc to exit Learn Mode.

Getting a List of Shortcuts
    Get into Learn Mode by pressing Orca Modifier+H.
    Press F2 if you want a list of shortcuts that apply Orca-wide, or press F3 if you want a list of shortcuts that are specifically for the application with focus.
    Press Up or Down to examine the contents of the list.
    Press Esc to exit the list.



